# THE CALL STACK

**call stack** is which is the path that your program has taken to reach the point were you set a breaking point or were you have an error.

# The JavaScript engine 
which is found in a hosting environment like the browser, is a single-threaded interpreter comprising of a heap and a single call stack. The browser provides web APIs like the DOM, AJAX, and Timers.

**Manage function invocation (call)**: The call stack maintains a record of the position of each stack frame. It knows the next function to be executed (and will remove it after execution). This is what makes code execution in JavaScript synchronous.

1. It is single-threaded. Meaning it can only do one thing at a time.
2. Code execution is synchronous.
3. A function invocation creates a stack frame that occupies a temporary memory.
4. It works as a LIFO — Last In, First Out data structure/

# JavaScript error messages && debugging

**To debug your JS code** 
* the easiest and maybe the most common way its to simply console.log() the variables you want to check 
* by using chrome developer tools, open your page with your JS code (press **cmd+o** in macOS or **Ctrl+o**in Windows) and choose your file to debug, click the line you wanna debug and refresh your page again (F5).


**Types of error messages**
1. **Reference errors** This is as simple as when you try to use a variable that is not yet declared you get this type os errors.

2. **Syntax errors**  occurs when you have something that cannot be parsed in terms of syntax, like when you try to parse an invalid object using JSON.parse.

3. **Range errors** Try to manipulate an object with some kind of length and give it an invalid length 

4. **Type errors** Like the name indicates, this types of errors show up when the types (number, string and so on) you are trying to use or access are incompatible, like accessing a property in an undefined type of variable.


