# Responsive Web Design

**Responsive Web Design** means to react quickly and positively to any change , to all different viewport sizes. No matter how large or small the viewport 
**adaptive** means to be easily modified for a new purpose or situation, such as change. 
**Mobile** on the other hand, generally means to build a separate website commonly on a new domain solely for mobile users

# Flexible Layouts

* *Responsive web design components*
1. flexible layouts :  the practice of building the layout of a website with a flexible grid, capable of dynamically resizing to any width
2.  media queries
3. and flexible media

* **relative length units** vw, vh, vmin, and vmax
* do not advocate the use of fixed measurement units, such as pixels or inches
* to help identify the proportions of a flexible layout using relative values
``target ÷ context = result``

##  Media Queries
it's used when the layout gets too small, or too large, text may become illegible and the layout may begin to break.

* different ways to use media queries:
1. using the @media rule inside of an existing style sheet, importing a new style sheet using the @import rule**it is recommend**
2. by linking to a separate style sheet from within the HTML document

* Logical Operators in Media Queries **and**, **not**, and **only**.
* **The min and max prefixes** can be used on quite a few media features. The min prefix indicates a values of greater than or equal to while the max prefix indicates a value of less than or equal to
* The orientation media feature determines if a device is in the landscape or portrait orientation. The landscape mode is triggered when the display is wider than taller, and the portrait mode is triggered when the display is taller than wider.
* **Aspect Ratio Media Features** : pecifies the width/height pixel ratio of the targeted rendering area or output device, **consist of two positive integers separated by a forward slash  The first integer identifies the width in pixels while the second integer identifies the height in pixels.**

* **Resolution Media Feature** The specifies the resolution of the output device in pixel density, also known as dots per inch or DPI. it's does accept the min and max prefixes
* **Respond.js** is a lightweight polyfill that only looks for min/max-width media types

# Mobile First
* One popular technique with using media queries
* The mobile *first approach* includes using styles targeted at smaller viewports as the default styles for a website, *then* use media queries to add styles as the viewport grows.
*  For the height property the keyword **device-height** value is accepted, and for the width property the keyword **device-width** is accepted.
* The minimum-scale and maximum-scale values determine how small and how large a viewport may be scaled.
* When using minimum-scale the value should be a positive integer lower than or equal to the initial-scale. Using the same reasoning, the maximum-scale value should be a positive integer greater than or equal to the initial-scale
*  Values for both of these must also be between 0 and 10.
* **Flexible Media**One quick way to make media scalable is by using the max-width property with a value of 100%. 
``img, video, canvas {``

  ``max-width: 100%;``

``}``


<!--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->
# Float

* **Float** is a CSS positioning property. To understand its purpose and origin,
* Absolutely positioned page elements are removed from the flow of the webpage not affect the position of other elements and other elements will not affect them, whether they touch each other or not.
* **float value** :
1.  Left and Right float elements those directions respectively
2.  Inherit which will assume the float value from that elements parent element.
3.  None (the default) ensures the element will not float
*  **Float’s sister property is clear**An element that has the clear property set on it will not move up adjacent to the float like the float desires, but will move itself down past the float
* **clear value**:
1. Both is most commonly used, which clears floats coming from either direction
2. Left and Right can be used to only clear the float from one direction respectively
3. None is the default, which is typically unnecessary unless removing a clear value from a cascade 
4. nherit but is strangely not supported in Internet Explorer. 

# Techniques for Clearing Floats

1. **The Empty Div Method** ``<div style="clear: both;"></div>``
2. **The Overflow Method** 
3. **The Easy Clearing Method** uses a clever CSS pseudo selector (:after) to clear floats. Rather than setting the overflow on the parent
``.clearfix:after { ``

``   content: ".";`` 

   ``visibility: hidden;`` 

   ``display: block; ``

   ``height: 0; ``

   ``clear: both;``

``}``

# Problems with Floats
1. Pushdown : Quick fix ``overflow: hidden``
2. Double Margin Bug:Quick fix  ``display: inline``
3. 3px Jog : Quick fix **set a width or height on the affected text**.
4. **Bottom Margin Bug** :Quick fix **using bottom padding on the parent instead**.