# Node.js
**Node.js**Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.

* check that Node is installed on your system ``node -v``
* creat new file ``node name.js``
*  Node comes bundled with a package manager called npm, to check the version that installed npm -v
*  to Installing a Package Globally ``npm install -g jshint``
* Installing a Package Locally ``npm init -y``
* use npm to install the lodash package  ``npm install lodash --save``

## What Is Node.js Used For?
-  build tools — designed to automate the process of developing a modern JavaScript application
- They can be used for anything from bundling your JavaScript files and dependencies into static assets, to running tests, or automatic code linting and style checking.
* need to start developing apps with any modern JavaScript framework 
* Node.js Lets Us Run JavaScript on the Server

## Are There Any Downsides?
* Node runs in a single thread does impose some limitations. **For example**
  1.  blocking I/O calls should be avoided
  2. CPU-intensive operations should be handed off to a worker thread and errors should always be handled correctly for fear of crashing the entire process.

* dislike the callback-based style of coding that JavaScript imposes 

## What Kind of Apps Is Node.js Suited To?
* suited to building applications that require some form of real-time interaction or collaboration
* for sites involving data streaming, as Node makes it possible to process files while they’re still being uploaded

## What Are the Advantages of Node.js?
*  speed and scalability
* you can easily share code between the server and the client;  no longer needs to switch modes. You can do everything in the same language
*  speaks JSON. JSON is probably the most important data exchange format on the Web
*  most of us are familiar with JavaScript, or have used it at some point. 